March 13th 1997 everyone was out under
the night sky to get a glimpse of the
hell ball comment which is passing over
but there was something else passing
over the sky that night as well it was
awesome and amazing it originally
started out at the six points of light
in a mile wide span I grabbed the camera
and I got outside by the time I focused
the cameras three had disappeared and I
caught the three above the city like a
giant triangle what dr. Lynn khatai and
thousands of others saw that night would
become known as the Phoenix lights one
of the most famous and well documented
UFO sightings ever the footage does not
do it justice okay
in the footage they're much smaller
they're away I called them in or because
the light did not extend outside the
edge and the coal within each world was
a uniform amber colors were out a didn't
glare at all these are very mesmerizing
very soothing and as I was watching
these I have to admit that it seemed
that there was an intelligence looking
back at me while dr. kute I saw lights
moving in formation others throughout
the state reported seeing something even
more otherworldly the very large Delta
shaped craft flew to animal force and
was witnessed by hundreds if not
thousands of people filmmaker James Fox
traveled to Phoenix and interviewed
dozens of eyewitnesses for a documentary
featuring the Phoenix lights it passed
right in front of us five lights that
were of B you're not going to believe
what I saw and he was amazed by what he
heard we opened up a news
you could not block out the objects that
we saw and these are very unambiguous up
close signing of a craft and on lights
and not flames
is it the cracker who directly overhead
people one of the kids I've talked to
said he could have hit it with a lot
whoever did this wanted to be seen and
they were seen by dr. khatai again and
again and again nearly a dozen times
over the next decade but is this the
case of an alien craft that wanted to be
seen or yet another example of people
wanting to see an alien craft when it's
pitch black
how would you possibly know if there's a
structure there are none versus one
that's just in your life
the curious thing about the people in
Phoenix lights who saw an actual craft
or sometimes movie is that other eye
witness is in the same area didn't see
that they only saw the lights see some
people filled in the gaps between the
lights in their minds and thought they
saw something that was an excellent
there after the initial mass sighting in
1997 everyone wanted to get to the
bottom of those mysterious lights
everyone it seemed except the
authorities for months there was no
investigation there was no explanation
they just blow it off but then Governor
Fife Symington announced he would launch
an investigation and at an unscheduled
press conference claimed authorities had
uncovered the source of the Phoenix
lights the public waited with bated
breath for the governor to reveal the
evidence okay it turns out the
investigation was really just the
governor's idea of a joke and the
evidence that's just his aide dressed up
as an alien
this almost historical environment that
was building it I just decided that this
is a great opportunity to go add some
levity to the situation who says you
can't trust the government it really
offended many many many people and
Arizonans still did not have an
explanation to the lights until about a
month later the flare theory emerged the
military revealed that on March 13
National Guard unit has been undergoing
a training mission that involved the
dropping of flares when people saw these
brilliant flares apparently suspended in
midair and they filmed it they you know
jumped to the conclusion that these were
UFOs but try telling one of the
eyewitnesses that all they saw were
military flares that's not what we
witnessed or documented I mean flares
cannot cannot keep information they
drift with the wind they float
haphazardly they have huge smoke trails
that were illuminated by the flare
itself I'm not saying it's an alien
spacecraft but don't tell me it was an
object because that's an insult to
everybody speaking of insulting
eyewitnesses it turns out that the
governor may not be as skeptical as he
appeared at that press conference I met
with governor Fife Symington he said you
know what I saw that thing - wait he
what it clearly had a shape to it and it
in a big shape and it was a constant
shape and you you can't control flares
that way there's just no way they were
fair so the ex governor who was also an
ex Air Force pilot saw the craft that
night in Phoenix just like all the other
eyewitnesses but does his pedigree carry
any clout with the skeptics five
Simonton is an interesting case
obviously is a thoughtful intelligent
a responsible person in the pilot cell
universe what he's looking at but that
doesn't make him any better as an
eyewitness the average truck driver just
here than there he can be fooled no
differently than anybody else I think
the fact that that thousands of
witnesses have come forward today saying
we saw this craft I just don't think we
can dismiss all all that testimony I saw
these things up close and personal and
no one can say that I didn't see what I
saw it cannot be explained or denied